[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: Talking to APIs and
using simple models.
In terms of retrieving data we have this
library I've mentioned called ember data
which is a robust way of
dealing with a restful API.
But we don't necessarily need to use it.
If you can use J query you can
connect to an API with ember,
and the reason is that ultimately we just
care about the concept of a promise,
and at this point in modern web
technology, modern web UI technology.
Everyone's using promises.
So you need to be aware
of setup controller,
we've already used that a couple times
to sort of add something extra to
the context the template is bound to.
And you
just need to be aware that the controller
is the top level contact for this stuff.
And the reason I'm saying this is because,
now we are going to deal with some data
that is a little bit more complicated and
we need to sort of be aware of how to
get it all set up in the right way.
So that we can start using that
instead of our little fixtures and
rays in the model hooks.
So here is an example of a simple
way to retrieve data from an API and I'm
gonna talk you through it line by line.
Hopefully everyone can see
this on the stream here and
if it's difficult check
out the PDF download.
So, in the model hook, the first thing
I'm doing is using this dot model for.
And in this case.
You can see from the API request I'm
making at the bottom of the model hook.
I'm actually getting the list
of repos in this case.
>> Speaker 2: What file are we looking at
right now?
>> Mike North: Good question.
We are looking at the the repo's route.
It's org repos and
it's not committed yet but
this is sort of solving part
of the exercise coming up.
So I'm basically giving
you the solution for
one piece and hopefully we can
apply it broadly to the whole app.
So here we're fetching a list of repos and
if we remember this params segment,
this params object,
that's an argument of the model method.
It's only going to have values from
the dynamic segment that pertained to
this particular route.
And in this case it is the repo ID.
I'm sorry, in this case, it is nothing.
My mistake.
I'm just going to refer
back to our router here.
We're talking about this route here.
No dynamic segment, we're falling back
to the default path which is just
repos.
>> Mike North: So
in order to make this request we need
the ID of the org to which
you know this URL pertains.
And to do that we use the stop model for
and
we're getting the model
from the parent route.
We're getting the ID.
Off of that model and
then we're using that to build
the URL to ask GitHub for this array.
And we're simply returning the promise,
and because this is one of the route's
promise aware hooks by the time
future hooks get called.
And by the time the template
has access to the model or
content property we will be dealing
with an array not a promise.
So I also in an effort to make the orb
object available to this
template I'm actually grabbing
the org from the right route here.
And I'm setting it on the controller
as part of setup controller and
this means that in the repose.hbs template
we'll be able to refer to something like
org.id or org.name or
whatever Gethub happens to give us.
But mainly I just want you guys to refresh
the concept of using setup controller
to sort of add some extra things that
are in addition to the whatever
the model is returning, and
I want you guys to remember model four.
>> Speaker 3: Would
you normally just turn the org and
the RCP hash?
As opposed to using temp control.
>> Mike North: In this case,
because this route is a child route
of something that already has
resolved the org,
I would not wanna ask GitHub again for
that same data.
>> Speaker 3: I'm just saying if Git, so.
This model for org and then put that
as a value in your model hash as
opposed to me using using setupController.
>> Mike North: Yeah we could do that and
then it would be model.org or content.org.
>> Speaker 3: [CROSSTALK] manage
either one?
>> Mike North: It's basically
the same.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Mike North: It's just what do
you wanna call it?
What seems better in the template as when
you're dealing with something this simple,
that's what I would let
cover in that decision.
Now, if we were dealing with 10 or
12 different things,
I could say probably then.
Then, when you're asking yourself
what's the primary model for
this template,
the answer is not so simple.
It's really the agglomeration
of these 10 things.
But in this case, it's clear.
The list is really what this is all about,
and we're tacking on this extra thing
instead of controller.
>> Speaker 4: Quick question on the line
where you're defining orgName.
>> Mike North: Yes.
>> Speaker 4: They wanna know why you
didn't use .getid instead of .id.
>> Mike North: Good question.
It is because in this case,
it is a plain java script object.
It is not an ember object.
Now, I could, when I go through
the example when I solve the problem.
I will show you how to do something that
doesn't care about whether it's an ember
object or just a plain java script object.
>> Mike North: So,
in the template here,
you can see that we have direct access.
And this is the matching template for
the route we were just looking at.
This is repos.hbs.
We can see that we can access
properties off of org directly,
because of what we did
inside of controller.
And we can iterate over content or
model and build links based on that.
So I wanna be clear that we're
working with simple models and
it, we're talking about like,
at the Ember generator for
generating a model or the models folder.
That is not what we're working with yet.
We are just dealing with a simple
representation of our data for now and
we'll sort of tack on the more complex and
more robust way of
dealing with it later on.
One thing Ember does
care about in order to
align well with the convention
over configuration and stuff.
Is make sure that you have this
property id on the object.
And for the purposes of what we've done so
far an example where id is important
is if we pass the whole
object itself to the link-to
handlebars helper the helper will
grab the property id off of it.
And so, that better be what we want
to appear in our URL when we're
building links.
In this case, when we start talking to the
GitHub API, we will see that what we want
to be in the URL is not what they call
id and we have to do a little massaging.